New recipe: Call endpoints from the server (#3202)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/recipes/call-endpoints.mdx

---
title: Call endpoints from the server
description: Learn how to call endpoints from the server in Astro.
i18nReady: true
type: recipe
---

> ## Recipe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling an endpoint in Astro allows you to... This recipe uses a server endpoint to ... (VERY SPECIFICALLY WHAT EXACTLY THIS EXAMPLE DOES)

## Prerequisites

- A project with [SSR](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/) (output: 'server') enabled

## Recipe
```
Just an example of an introductary paragraph and of a Prerequisites section. If there are no prerequisites, let's still include the section, and just say `- none`!

Note that this recipe should be something very specific, that someone can follow through entirely and add something new to their page. So, it shouldn't be "here's what adding an endpoint is like..." It should be: "Follow these steps and your project will now do this." So, we do have to tell them what exactly is going to happen. It's then on the reader to adjust as necessary for their purposes to do something that is useful to them.  :)

> 1. Create an endpoint (e.g. `src/pages/api/hello.ts`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an endpoint in a new file `src/pages/api/hello.ts` that returns some data:
```
We should be specific about what this code is doing

    ```ts title="src/pages/api/hello.ts"
    import type { APIRoute } from 'astro'

    export const get: APIRoute = () => {
      return {
        body: JSON.stringify({

>           hello: 'world',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          greeting: 'Hello',
```
So, I didn't like that "world" is not a reasonable value for "hello"  ??  :sweat_smile: Plus, since you use this to recreate the text "Hello world" it's not great to have duplicating words because it's not as clear tracing through that things are entirely separate.

        }),
      }
    }
    ```

> 2. Import the method from the endpoint & call it from a page (e.g. `src/pages/index.astro`). Await the result in the case it's a promise, and convert it to a `Response` if it's not already. Then, you can use the `Response` methods to get the data you need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On any Astro page  (e.g. `src/pages/index.astro`), import the `get()` method from the endpoint. Then, you can use the `Response` methods to get the data you need:

  ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
  ---
  import { get } from './api/hello.ts'
  let response = await get(Astro)
  const data = await response.json()
  ---
  <h1>{data.greeting} world!</h1>
  ```

```
OK, there was a lot going on in that instruction. AND, since this is YOUR recipe, you should know whether or not it's a promise/response? So, I'm going to suggest cutting that, making the example more simple. 

You could include another step that showing the full example saying that depending on how much is known about the data you're fetching, you could also add a line to convert to a response, if it's not already one.

Also, we haven't explained what "Astro" is in that example above?

>     ```tsx title="src/pages/index.astro"
>     ---
>     import { get } from './api/hello.ts'
> 
>     let res = await get(Astro)
>     if (!(res instanceof Response)) res = new Response(res.body, res)
> 
>     const data = await res.json()
>     ---
> 
>     <h1>Hello {data.hello}</h1>
>     ```

Reviewer: If you are using this method to fetch data from an API and are unsure about the type of data you'll receive, you can add a line to convert it to a `Response` if it's not already. 

``````suggestion {5}
```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" 
---
import { get } from './api/hello.ts'

let response = await get(Astro)
if (!(response instanceof Response)) res = new Response(response.body, response)

const data = await response.json()
---

<h1>{data.greeting} world!</h1>
```
``````
You could do something like this to show adding the new line
